---
author: cbhl
date: '2010-03-27 00:01:13'
layout: post
slug: half-finished-blog-posts-other-miscellany
status: publish
title: Half-Finished Blog Posts & Other Miscellany
wordpress_id: '8'
categories:
- mathNEWS
---

One of the annoying things about the "young and educated" is that these
people often have two particular traits - a lot of ambition, and the
potential to do almost anything. The problem, I find, with this is that
it often leads to the desire to **do** everything (at least once).
Whether it's rolling your own implementation of Hashtable, or creating
your own WordPress theme from scratch, to writing blog posts and
articles on every topic imaginable or redesigning the user interface for
your bank's online banking system. But with so many ideas, how will you
ever manage to implement any of them? One technique that works really
well is to just sit down with a pen and paper and to do your given task
as quickly as possible. This is so you don't forget the little quirks in
your implementation/writing/design between when you start writing and
when you finished. (And I do literally mean a physical pen and white
paper. I personally prefer writing on unlined copy paper, but your
preference may vary. I find it's **way** too distracting to work at a
computer, and yet my future career choice involves doing this very
thing.) With any luck, after a fortnight or three, your masterpiece will
be done and you can unleash it on the world. For short tasks (say, a
*math*NEWS article), this works great - you can get away with breaking
almost all of the rules and life is good. For larger things,
unfortunately, you'll need to start following conventions if you wish
you avoid becoming unnecessarily crazy as your pet project progresses,
or, indeed, if you wish to finish your project at all. This might be as
simple as setting yourself a deadline (NaNoWriMo.org is a good example
of this), or writing comments for "yourself in three weeks". At times,
more elaborate schemes, such as project plans or (\*gasp\*) structured
essay-style writing are necessary. Whether your master plan is to to
dominate the world or to provide a safe online environment where
autistic kids can learn to communicate with the outside world, for your
young mind, the idea of "convention, convention, convention" may be
sheer absurdity. Conventions mean following the crowd like sheep, and
this goes against the entire bane of your existence. If you're lucky,
one day you might see the benefits and pitfalls of convention - how
conventions allow the rest of the world to understand what it is that
you're trying to accomplish, and how conventions also free up your mind
to think about really important dilemmas, like deciding whether or not
your project is actually finished. How do you go about deciding when
your project is actually finished, anyway? There's the traditional
open-source model of release early and release often - your project is
never truly finished and early adopters will see all the rough edges in
your work. On the other hand, you might be like the stereotypical
artistic mastermind: "it'll be done when it's done." (Even if that means
that your pet project never sees the light of day.) For most fairly
large projects, you'll want to find some middle ground between these two
extremes - giving yourself enough time to work out the major kinks
without losing too many (potential but impatient) users, readers, or
minions to competitors that actually unleash their the latest and
greatest creation upon the world. It's a fine line, and the criteria for
release vary from project to project and from day to day. You'll need to
figure this one out for yourself, unfortunately. Finally, for any fairly
sizable project, you'll need to collaborate with others. At least, you
will if you ever hope to profit from your creation before desktop
computers go the way of the Ford Model T and Sam the Record Man. Yes,
this means the oh-so-dreaded group project. Suddenly, you have amateurs
mucking about in your code, adding misfeatures and generally detracting
from your master plan. You need to develop project plans and
specifications and keep those specifications up to date with **every**
code change. Perhaps, even, you'll need to work with non-technical
people. Whether it's the double-degree Design student from Sheridan or
the business student from Schulich, or the Physics kid from Waterloo who
remembers Hooke's Law just a bit better than you do. These are the
obvious examples, too. It takes an open mind and a bit of cleverness to
see the skills and potential present in people like the girl in Applied
Health Sciences who spends all day on Twitter and making avatars for
LiveJournal, or the popular kid from high school, (who, to this day,
only talks to you when nobody else is watching) or the accounting kid
that all your friends tease and "abuse" because she's short. As time
goes on, soon you'll find you know more and more about less and less.
Specialization is part of growing up in today's world. (It also makes us
dependent on others, but that's a whole other article.) Advertisers have
recognized the need to start profiling individual consumers, so that
they can provide targeted advertisements relevant to ideas you already
have stuck in your head - whether it's time to buy a new computer or a
new house, time to switch banks, or time to figure out what graduate
school program you want to apply for. The organizations who don't do
these evil things will protect our "privacy", sure, but they will
eventually go out of business when their special offers and surveys end
up in the Junk E-mail folder on our computers. Likewise, you, the
brilliant mastermind you are, will need to recognize the individual
strengths of people around you if you are going to succeed in taking
over the world. Otherwise, you'll just become another cog - another rat
in the great rat race known as life. Which isn't so bad, really... or so
I've been told. If I waited to find out myself, this article would have
sat half-finished for at least 40 more years. chbllhbc
